docs: ability to install with vault sidecar injector (#58)
kubeshop/testkube-docs: docs/articles/vault-install.md

# Installation Using Vault

> This guide specifically covers an installation of Testkube utilizing [Vault's sidecar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide covers an installation of Testkube utilizing [Vault's sidecar
```

> This guide specifically covers an installation of Testkube utilizing [Vault's sidecar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide covers an installation of Testkube utilizing [Vault's sidecar
```

Reviewer: Yes - not sure how that happened.

injector](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/platform/k8s/injector), but

> we are ready to support enterprise customers utilizing the secrets operator or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we also support enterprise customers utilizing the secrets operator or
```

> we are ready to support enterprise customers utilizing the secrets operator or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we also support enterprise customers utilizing the secrets operator or
```

has the above policy attached to it.

In the `testkube-enterprise` chart configure the following values to properly
inject and consume the secret Minio credentials:

```yaml
minio:
  auth:
    useCredentialsFiles: true
    useSecret: false
  serviceAccount:
    create: false
    name: "vault-minio"
  automountServiceAccountToken: true
  podAnnotations:
    vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject: "true"
    vault.hashicorp.com/secret-volume-path: /opt/bitnami/minio/secrets
    vault.hashicorp.com/role: 'minio'
    vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject-secret-root-user: kv/minio/credentials
    vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject-secret-root-password: kv/minio/credentials
    # NOTE: These templates need to be double escaped as Minio runs this through tpl.
    vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject-template-root-user: |
      {{"{{"}}"{{"{{"}}"}}- with secret "kv/minio/credentials" }}{{"{{"}}"{{"{{"}}"}} .Data.data.root_user }}{{"{{"}}"{{"{{"}}"}} end -}}
    vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject-template-root-password: |
      {{"{{"}}"{{"{{"}}"}}- with secret "kv/minio/credentials" }}{{"{{"}}"{{"{{"}}"}} .Data.data.root_password }}{{"{{"}}"{{"{{"}}"}} end -}}
```

## Control Plane

> The control plane, aka enterprise API, exposes the central API for the agents and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The control plane, AKA enterprise API, exposes the central API for the agents and
```

the dashboard. The worker service is a part of the control plane which performs
long-running tasks such as processing artifacts.

Depending on your needs the control plane might need the following secrets to be
injected from a Vault:

- License key

> - License file, only for offline licenses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- License file (only for offline licenses)
```

- Minio credentials
- Private certificate authority (CA) certificate

To keep this guide simple we will have one service account for both
components of the control plane (enterprise API and worker service) which will

> need to have access to the Vault secrets, but to enforce least privilege one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
need to have access to the Vault secrets, but to enforce the least privilege one
```

Reviewer: Your suggestion sounds good.

could create individual service accounts and policies for each component.

Start by creating a service account, `vault-control-plane`, for the control
plane. Bind the service account to a Vault role, `control_plane`.

### Online License

Create a secret `kv/control-plane/license` with the license key:

```json
{
  "key": "********",
}
```

> To the `control_plane` role add a policy that allows reading the above secret:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To the `control_plane` role, add a policy that allows reading the above secret:
```

```hcl
path "kv/data/control-plane/license" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
```

In the `testkube-enterprise` chart configure the following values to properly
inject and consume the secret license key:

```yaml
testkube-cloud-api:
  enterpriseLicenseKeyPath: /etc/testkube/secrets/license.key
  serviceAccount:
    name: vault-control-plane
  podAnnotations:
    vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject: "true"
    vault.hashicorp.com/role: 'control_plane'
    vault.hashicorp.com/secret-volume-path-license.key: /etc/testkube/secrets
    vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject-secret-license.key: kv/control-plane/license
    vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject-template-license.key: |
      {{`{{- with secret "kv/control-plane/license" }}{{ .Data.data.key }}{{ end -}}`}}
```

### Offline License

Create a secret `kv/control-plane/license` with the license key and license
file:

```json
{
  "key": "********",
  "license": "********"
}
```

> To the `control_plane` role add a policy that allows reading the above secret:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To the `control_plane` role, add a policy that allows reading the above secret:
```

```hcl
path "kv/data/control-plane/license" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
```

In the `testkube-enterprise` chart configure the following values to properly
inject and consume the secret license key:

```yaml
testkube-cloud-api:
  enterpriseLicenseKeyPath: /etc/testkube/secrets/license.key
  enterpriseLicenseFilePath: /etc/testkube/secrets/license.lic
  serviceAccount:
    name: vault-control-plane
  podAnnotations:
    vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject: "true"
    vault.hashicorp.com/role: 'control_plane'
    vault.hashicorp.com/secret-volume-path-license.key: /etc/testkube/secrets
    vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject-secret-license.key: kv/control-plane/license
    vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject-template-license.key: |
      {{`{{- with secret "kv/control-plane/license" }}{{ .Data.data.key }}{{ end -}}`}}
    vault.hashicorp.com/secret-volume-path-license.lic: /etc/testkube/secrets
    vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject-secret-license.lic: kv/control-plane/license
    vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject-template-license.lic: |
      {{`{{- with secret "kv/control-plane/license" }}{{ .Data.data.license }}{{ end -}}`}}
```

### Minio Credentials

> To the `control_plane` role add a policy that allows reading the previously

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To the `control_plane` role, add a policy that allows reading the previously
```

created secret containing the password and username for the root Minio user:

```hcl
path "kv/data/minio/credentials" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
```

> In the `testkube-enterprise` chart configure the following values to properly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `testkube-enterprise` chart, configure the following values to properly
```

testkube-worker-service:
  serviceAccount:
    name: vault-control-plane
  podAnnotations:
    vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject: "true"
    vault.hashicorp.com/role: 'control_plane'
    vault.hashicorp.com/secret-volume-path-minio-config.json: /etc/testkube/secrets
    vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject-secret-minio-config.json: kv/minio/credentials
    vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject-secret-minio-config.json: kv/minio/credentials
    vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject-template-minio-config.json: |
      {{`{{- with secret "kv/minio/credentials" }}{"aliases":{"s3":{"accessKey":"{{ .Data.data.root_user }}","secretKey":"{{ .Data.data.root_password }}","api":"S3v4"}},"version":"10"}{{ end -}}`}}
  api:
    minio:
      credsFilePath: /etc/testkube/secrets/minio-config.json
```

### Private Certificate Authority (CA)

Create a secret `kv/certs/ca` with the `ca` field holding the PEM-encoded
certificate for the private certificate authority (CA) signing the certificates
for the various Testkube components:

```json
{
  "ca": "********"
}
```

:::warning

For simplicity, this guide uses the same key-value secrets engine to hold the

> CA certificate, but in all likelihood CA certificate would come from a PKI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CA certificate, but in all likelihood the CA certificate would come from a PKI
```

secrets engine in Vault.

:::

> To the `control_plane` role add a policy that allows reading the above created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To the `control_plane` role, add a policy that allows reading the above created
```

secret.

```hcl
path "kv/data/certs/ca" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
```

In the `testkube-enterprise` chart configure the following values to properly
inject the private CA certificate:

```yaml
testkube-cloud-api:
  customCaDirPath: /etc/testkube/certs
  serviceAccount:
    name: vault-control-plane
  podAnnotations:
    vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject: "true"
    vault.hashicorp.com/role: 'control_plane'
    vault.hashicorp.com/secret-volume-path-ca.pem: /etc/testkube/certs
    vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject-secret-ca.pem: kv/certs/ca
    vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject-template-ca.pem: |
      {{`{{- with secret "kv/certs/ca" }}{{ .Data.data.ca }}{{ end -}}`}}
```

## Agent

### Private Certificate Authority (CA)

> Assuming the agent has access to the same Vault as the control plane, building

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming the agent has access to the same Vault as the control plane, to build
```

> on the above direction for injection of the private CA into the control plane one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on the above direction for injection of the private CA into the control plane
```

would similarly need to create a service account, `vault-agent`, bound to a Vault

> role, `agent` with a policy that allows reading the CA secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
role, and `agent` with a policy that allows reading the CA secret.
```

> In the `testkube` chart configure the following values to properly inject the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `testkube` chart, configure the following values to properly inject the
```
